[Docs] Update: DSLSchema (#304)
player-ui/player: docs/site/pages/dsl/dsl-schema-type.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: In my opinion this should be part of the DSL Schema page

title: DSLSchema
---

## DSLSchema

> A `DSLSchema` type is provided in order be able to define the acceptable data types to be used and the validators to be defined for authoring the DSL data schema in our workspace. In the following example we'll generate everything we need for our DSLSchema type instance for checking based on the data types and validators available in the Player plugin `common-types-plugin`. For this purpose you can use some types and utilities found in the `@player-tools/dsl` package. 

Reviewer: The "why"/benefits of this feature should be expanded on a bit more in this write up, especially upfront.

```typescript
/** Grouping the validator functions into a new object, so we can also combine more validator sets in the future */
const coreValidatorSet = {
  ...coreValidators
}

/** Generating the validator function references types based in their functions from above. Each validator ref will include its inherent required and optional own parameters, as well all properties that are part of the ValidationRefProps type*/
type CoreValidatorRefs = {
  /** Property name with validator ref object */
  [Property in keyof CoreValidatorTypes as `${Property}Ref`]: {
    /** Valiator name */
    type: Property;
  } & Parameters<CoreValidatorTypes[Property]>[2] &
    ValidationRefProps;
};

/** We generate the union type from the Validators Refs above*/
type CoreValidatorRefType = CoreValidatorRefs[keyof CoreValidatorRefs];

```

The final step is to put our generated data type properties union, and our validator function references union as generics for the `DataTypeReference` type which is the sole type we pass into the `DSLSchema` type instance:

```typescript
export type MyWorkspaceDSLSchema = DSLSchema<
  DataTypeReference<DataTypeProp, ValidatorRef>
>;
```

> Finally this is how to use the schema: By adding the statement `satisfies` followed by your `DSLSchema` generated type, Typescript will show if there is anything not compliant with the data types and validation functions we defined in the schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, this is how to use the custom schema type to type check your schema. By adding the `satisfies` keyword followed by your `DSLSchema` generated type, your editor's LSP will show if there is anything not compliant with the data types and validation functions we defined in the schema:
```

```typescript
import { MyWorkspaceDSLSchema, dataRefs } from './MyTypes'

const { BooleanTypeRef } = dataRefs

const exampleSchema = {
  myDataSet = {
    firstPath: BooleanTypeRef
    secondPath: {

>       /** To be able to define validator functions we need to elaborate the data reference object */

Reviewer: Not sure exactly what this means, can you clarify this a bit?
